v0.3.4 (2024-06-13)
=======================

Enhancements
------------
* Unified Cell and Module Temperature function. See: `temperature.temperature``
* Added support for pvlib temperature models. `see pvlib docs <https://pvlib-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/pv_modeling/temperature.html>`
* Overhauled scenario class for pv system analysis. Scenario object for single point analysis and GeospatialScenario object for geospatial analysis. See: `scenario.Scenario` and `scenario.GeospatialScenario`
* Created Scenario tutorials to showcase new scenario functionality.
* Added a number of geospatial downselection functions. Find coordinates near mountains, rivers, coastlines and lakes from NSRDB data. See: `geospatial.identify_mountains_weights`, `geospatial.identify_mountains_radii`, `geospatial.feature_downselect`
* Added geospatial bounding box support. Clip unwanted data with rectangular bounding boxes. See: `geospatial.apply_bounding_box`
* Added stochastic non-uniform density downselection function to preferentially select for mountains (higher point density with changes in elevation, lower density when flatter.) See:  `geospatial.elevation_stochastic_downselection`
* Updated non-uniform downselection with thresholding and non-linear normalization (support for logarithmic and exponential normalization) See: `geospatial.identify_mountains_weights`
* Added Scenario and GeospatialScenario methods for quick plotting and downselection. See: `GeospatialScenario.plot_coords`, `GeospatialScenario.plot_meta_classification` `GeospatialScenario.plot_USA`, `Scenario.extract`, `Scenario.plot`, `GeospatialScenario.classify_mountain_weights`, `GeospatialScenario.classify_mountain_radii`, `GeospatialScenario.downselect_elevation_stochastic`

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Tobin Ford (:ghuser:`tobin-ford`)