v0.4.0 (2024-07-29)
=======================

Enhancements
---------
Scenarios  

* Unified Cell and Module Temperature function. See: ``temperature.temperature``
* Added support for pvlib temperature models. ``see pvlib docs <https://pvlib-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/pv_modeling/temperature.html>``
* Overhauled scenario class for pv system analysis. Scenario object for single point analysis and GeospatialScenario object for geospatial analysis. See: ``scenario.Scenario`` and ``scenario.GeospatialScenario``
* Created Scenario tutorials to showcase new scenario functionality.  
* Added a number of geospatial downselection functions. Find coordinates near mountains, rivers, coastlines and lakes from NSRDB data. See: ``geospatial.identify_mountains_weights``, ``geospatial.identify_mountains_radii``, ``geospatial.feature_downselect``
* Added geospatial bounding box support. Clip unwanted data with rectangular bounding boxes. See: ``geospatial.apply_bounding_box``
* Added stochastic non-uniform density downselection function to preferentially select for mountains (higher point density with changes in elevation, lower density when flatter.) See:  ``geospatial.elevation_stochastic_downselection``
* Updated non-uniform downselection with thresholding and non-linear normalization (support for logarithmic and exponential normalization) See: ``geospatial.identify_mountains_weights``
* Added Scenario and GeospatialScenario methods for quick plotting and downselection. See: ``GeospatialScenario.plot_coords``, ``GeospatialScenario.plot_meta_classification``, ``GeospatialScenario.plot_USA``, ``Scenario.extract``, ``Scenario.plot``, ``GeospatialScenario.classify_mountain_weights``, ``GeospatialScenario.classify_mountain_radii``, ``GeospatialScenario.downselect_elevation_stochastic``.  
* Added a convenience method ``GepspatialScenario.geospatial_data`` to quickly pull the geospatial weather and metadata from a scenario. Matches the API for ``pvdeg.weather.get``.  

Geospatial Improvements  

* Autotemplating system for geospatial analysis using `pvdeg.geospatial.autotemplate`.  
* New module `pvdeg.decorators` that contains `pvdeg` specific decorator functions.
* Implemented `geospatial_result_type` decorator to update functions and preform runtime introspection to determine if a function is autotemplate-able.
* `Geospatial Templates.ipynb` notebook to showcase new and old templating functionality for users.
* Implemented testing for geospatial analysis.  
* Added chunked and unchunked testing.  

Symbolic Evaluation  

* symbolic equation solver for simple models.
* notebook tutorial `Custom-Functions-Nopython.ipynb`

IEC-63126 Tool

* Added `GeospatialScenario` to standoff tool for regional analyses.
* Increased plotting functionality within tool.

Bug Fixes
---------
* Added type hinting to many `pvdeg` functions
* Fixed broken keywords in many `pvdeg.standards` function calls
* Replaced deprecated numba `jit(nopython=True)` calls with `njit`
* Fix incorrect keyword arguments in `pvdeg.standards.T98_estimate`
* Fixed ``pvdeg.temperature.module`` and ``pvdeg.temperature.cell`` docstring return type. Correct return type ``pd.Series``
* Fixed broken Geospatial Analysis, when using chunked (dask) xarrays for weather data

Dependencies
------------
* `sympy` package required for `pvdeg.symbolic` functions and notebook. Not added to dependency list.
* Restrict the following dependencies to fix unit testing
* ``numpy==1.26.4``
* ``pvlib==0.10.3``
* ``scipy<1.14.0``

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Tobin Ford (:ghuser:`tobin-ford`)
* Mike Kempe (:ghuser:`MDKempe`)
