v0.5.0 (2025-2-7)
===================

Enhancements
--------------
- New Logo!🎉🎉🎉
- Created utilities for parallelized downloads of ``PVGIS`` and ``NSRDB`` so users can download geospatial data for at home simulations. This will interface nicely with the soon to be released ``GeoGridStore``, allowing users to grow stores of geospatial data overtime as their needs grow for at-home, large-scale analyses.
- Documenation overhaul. Significant ``User Guide`` improvements. Added geospatial information with visual aids, added meteorological data page and materials access page.
- Suite of utility functions to facilitate accessing material parameter json files.
- Moved ``GeospatialScenario`` class definition to ``geospatialscenario.py``
- Remove kdtree as required argument from ``GeospatialScenario`` downselection methods, kdtree objects are now generated on the fly when required and saved to scenario object for future use.
- ``decorators.geospatial_quick_shape`` arguments modified. ``numeric_or_timeseries``, now takes a string ``('numeric', 'timeseries')`` to determine type of outputs rather than a ``Bool`` or ``Int``
    - previously, ``0`` or ``False`` represented a numeric/scalar result, now this is represented by ``'numeric'``
    - previosuly, ``1`` or ``True`` represented a timeseries result, now this is represented by ``'timeseries'``
- ``decorators.py`` namespace changed to default ``pvdeg`` namespace. now this can be directly accessed via ``pvdeg.decorators``. This reduces the need for an extra import.  
    -  ``geospatial_quick_shape`` decorator namespace changed to defualt pvdeg namespace  

Previously, 

.. code-block:: Python

    import pvdeg
    from pvdeg.decorator import geospatial_quick_shape

    @geospatial_quick_shape(0, ...)
    def myfunc(...):
        ....

Now, either of the following options work.

.. code-block:: Python

    import pvdeg

    # now takes string instead of integer or boolean value
    @pvdeg.decorators.geospatial_quick_shape('numeric', ...)
    def myfunc(...):
        ....

.. code-block:: Python

    # this is the style used in the PVDeg package implementations
    import pvdeg.decorators

    @decorators.geospatial_quick_shape('numeric', ...)
    def myfunc(...):
        ....

Bug Fixes
-------------
- fixed an issue where pvdeg.geospatial.elevation_stochastic_downselect would return metadata row indicies which were downselected instead of named gids.


Contributors
-----------
- Tobin Ford (:ghuser:`tobin-ford`)
